Financial technology can solve
a lot of problems that exist in
the financial sector with respect
to both consumers and firms.
For example, it can help
those who don't have access
to the traditional
banking sector be
able to get access to
financial services at
lower costs than
expensive alternative providers,
and from the perspective of
entrepreneurs and firms,
it can help new businesses
who might not have
access to sources of
funding from traditional
financial institutions
be able to crowd fund
at relatively low cost in order
to fund their new enterprises,
but that's not to say
that there aren't
also problems that
exist with respect to
financial technology
service providers
and new challenges for regulators
as they think through how
best to intervene and to
help facilitate the growth
of these markets.
The potential for a data breaches
and cybercrime attacks is
one area in which
financial technology fields
especially vulnerable.
According to the FBI's
Internet crime report in 2017,
cybercrime cost the US
almost $1.5 billion.
As more consumer information
is stored on the
Cloud and more financial
technology is happening,
and services are being
provided to consumers on
their personal electronic
devices like their smartphones,
concerns about cyber hacking
dominates significantly.
As the technology innovators
have at their disposal
to try to better
the lives of consumers
improve significantly,
so too does the technology that
hackers and cyber criminals
can rely upon to
prey on consumers'
information and
regular use of financial
technology innovations.
One case study that's quite
helpful to see the issues posed
by data breaches and
potential cyber
criminality is of course,
Equifax is recent exposure to
hackers of its customer's
personal information.
Equifax technology
allows consumers to
interface what
their credit scores online,
and stores personal and
consumer information
on its web-based
platform service.
The enterprise technology
that Equifax relied upon
how to vulnerability
which was identified
months before the breach
but not fixed,
and so hackers were able to
steal personal information of
approximately half of
the United States population.
That means that hackers
were able to get access to
social security
numbers for around
a 143 million US citizens.
The regulatory response to
the Equifax data breach
was quite swift.
Senator Elizabeth
Warren co-sponsored
a bill that would try and give
the Federal Trade Commission
more direct
supervisory power over
credit reporting agencies like
Equifax and the ability
to levy fines.
The Equifax example
is the salient one,
both because it's a very
large data breach the
implicates around half of
the population of the United
State and because it was
relatively easily avoidable
data breach given that
this vulnerability
was known but not
fixed for months
leading up to the hack.
However, this is far from
the only instance of the
cyber criminality and
fraudulent stealing of consumers
personal information that is
made available by financial
technology service providers.
Large financial institutions are
often the targets of
these Internet hacks,
those like JP Morgan Chase
and eBay and T-Mobile,
and online payment structures
like, Target and Apple,
and there's a question
for how regulators
should think about harnessing
the power of technology,
and allowing for innovation in
these new sectors while
simultaneously being
cognizant of the fact
that protecting
consumer information is
a difficult and important task,
and so if consumers
transacted less online,
there would certainly
be less ability and
less concern that their personal
information could be so
easily stolen by those with
expertise in cyber criminality
but on the other hand,
financial services
provision would be less
efficient and less able to serve
a large swath of
the population both
here in the United States but
much more globally as well,
and so the inherent
question here is how
to weigh the benefits
of innovation and
the benefit of broads
financial inclusion
through financial technology
service providers against
the nature of criminal threats
that will inevitably occur
as more and more of
our personal transacting
is happening online.
The idea of data breaches
or cyber criminality while
heightened in the context of
financial technology are
not really new problems.
It's always been a concern that
individuals could get access to
personal information
in ways that are
undesirable and likely
to harm consumers,
but financial technology
also creates
a set of problems
that are really quite
unique to these new
innovative platforms and pose
a special confusion for
regulators who have
yet to have to
deal with the concerns that
are being implicated
in these markets.
So for example, recently,
cryptocurrency investors
were locked out of a
$190 million after the founder of
a particular Canadian exchange
died prematurely without making
provisions for
the future viability
of this particular
cryptocurrency.
Now, the main idea
of a crypto asset is
its a de-centralized ledger to
allow for anonymous transacting,
and while this creates tremendous
benefits for consumers
and makes financial
intermediation
much more decentralize,
it also creates quite unique
problems that wouldn't occur,
for example, if
Jamie Diamond passed away,
the CEO of JP Morgan Chase,
perhaps there will
be turbulence at
the firm but the bank would
roughly continued to function
as normal, and instead,
the death of a cryptocurrency
exchange founder
unexpectedly practically
means that large sums
of money can
effectively disappear.
There would be no such
concern at a bank that
deposits of individuals
or of firms
would magically disappear
even if the founder of
one of these large
financial institutions
was to pass away prematurely.
Another divergent example
involves peer-to-peer
lending schemes.
The nature of
peer-to-peer lending
is individuals apply for a loan
and that loan is given to them
by the peer-to-peer
lending platform,
and then repackaged and sold
to the other side of the platform
which the nature of
peer-to-peer lending
makes it sound like it's
another peer of yours,
but in reality it tends to
be large institutional investors,
and in this particular context,
the loans that were being resold
didn't meet the buyer's criteria.
The buyer in this case was
Jeffrey's bank but they were
doctored by the peer-to-peer
lending platform
to make it appear that they did,
and this became
a cause for concern of
the FTC in their context
of Lending Club,
and eventually led to
the resignation of
Lending Club CEO.
One very interesting
case study that
illustrates the unique
problems posed by
financial technology has to do of
course with Bitcoin and
particularly this Silk Road.
The idea behind Bitcoin
is it allows for
anonymous and fast transacting
between consumers for
a variety of goods,
essentially any kind of good
that you could conceive up.
The anonymity is quite
desirable to those who
value their privacy,
and would prefer
that their exchange
happen on a
de-centralized ledger.
The concern though with
such technology is that
it can be used for
nefarious activities
as is the case with
the Silk Road where
transactions would occur.
For example, illegal drugs
on what is called the
dark net through the use
of Bitcoin and other
crypto assets.
Estimate suggested
that around 70 percent
of the transactions
that occurred on
the so-called Silk Road involved
illegal activities
such as drug trading.
This suggest the need for
more regulation and
also more direct
intervention in this space,
and points to the idea that it is
important for us to
develop use cases or
think through what the use cases
for crypto assets maybe that
simultaneously
improve the lives of
consumers and allow us
to transact more easily,
more quickly, more efficiently,
but also preserve a role for
and provide a venue for
appropriate regulation,
and control over
activities that we may be
concerned might happen outside of
the traditional financial space.